So here's what we wanna do, right?
Now that we've got our repository created
we can actually go back to our terraform
automation now because half of the work
is actually already done, right?
So the first part of the work that we did
before was like setting up terraform and
all that stuff but that's done right,
and we just created the repository.
So all we really need to do now, right,
is add the workspace with
its configuration, right?
So I'm gonna go to locals, and
then I'm going to add a new workspace,
let me copy and paste it from over here.
I'm gonna add a new workspace.
For GitHub, and
I'm gonna call it femeci github, right?
Now note my little comment there which
is I'm setting it to local first.
Can anyone tell me or
suggest think why am I be doing this?
>> Debugging?
Close.
>> There's no state first time.
Exactly, because there's no state or
anything like that.
Like there's no automation in
the repository hasn't been set up yet.
There's no environment variables in
the cloud, so we know it's gonna fail.
So we have to at least start where
a scenario where we're not just gonna
immediately fail in front.
So to do that we're gonna go to now
this is where the organization name
can actually be super helpful.
So you'll see in my first one
I have my main name right but
in this one I actually am
using the organization name.
That's because I'm making an opinionation
here where I'm saying you
know what let's just make it so that every
time I wanna use my main organization,
I'll just use,
the GitHub organization name.
So that's why we added it previously.
Was this because going forward,
I don't wanna like anything that's due.
You'll notice that almost
nothing here is duplicate.
Right, unless we're trying
to make it be that.
So in this case because we're not, right,
we can do that so go ahead and
get that in there for me.
>> Can you do the curly bracket because
that's just string concatenation?
>> Yeah, yeah.
>> Literal?
>> Yeah, it's called string interpolation.
But yeah,
I'm basically taking the variable and
interpolating it into the stream.
All right.
So the cool part is once the tfe side
gets set up, [LAUGH] it's really that.
That's it.
So now what we can do is what,
what would I do here?
Would I validate or would I.
>> We've made a new works.
We made the new repos.
That probably has to be initiated.
>> Sure, but we have to do something
in Terraform Cloud first, right?
We don't have a workspace yet.
I have the code in my repository but
would I run a plan here?
Would I plan here?
>> Nope.
Just commit it.
>> Just commit it.
Yeah, exactly.
I just commit it, and
this is the cycle, right?
This is now how it works right commit.
Let's validate just to be safe,
and then commit, right.
So now we're gonna say
set up GitHub workspace.
All right.
Now what's cool is,
is again, at this point,
Terraform Cloud's completely automated.
We don't have to go into Terraform Cloud
and make changes manually anymore.
So now once I push that up, I should
just be able to go back to my projects.
And see a new plan.
And there it is.
There's my new plan.
That's the lifecycle.
Commit, push, go to Terraform Cloud and
check your plan.
>> But
what's the local on this new workspace?
You mean like what is the definition?
>> No, why did why do we want to be local?
I guess I didn't.
>> Because it's a workspace we're
creating a TerraForm cloud.
Right?
So, let's go back to our diagram and maybe
this will help it make sense again, right?
So there's two components to every
workspace that we must have.
We must have a workspace and
then a repository that it tracks, right.
But we're in a situation with both and
it's only Terraform and GitHub.
Why is it only Terraform in GitHub?
Because they're the two things that
maintain state, [LAUGH] right?
Terraform cloud is the thing that
holds the state in the cloud.
But then GitHub is the repository
that it tracks, right?
These are manual processes.
Going forward, we'll only gonna create a
telephone network and a telephone cluster.
We are actually gonna create
those at the same exact time.
Because we have automation already set
up to create multiple work spaces at
the same time and
now we also have automation to create
repositories at the same time, right.
So every time we take a step forward and
automation,
we're making our required work less and
less and less right.
And so what we're doing is we're
first going to terraform cloud to
create that because again,
what is dependent of what.
The workspace is dependent
of the repository, so
we create the repository first so that it
exists, even though it's empty, right?
But then we create the workspace so
that it can find the repository,
even though it's empty, but it can
connect and start synchronizing, right?
So then I can just start
pushing to the GitHub repo.
And I don't have to plan like that removed
the need for me to go, okay, let's in it,
let's plan, let's migrate the state.
That doesn't need to be done anymore,
right?
But we still have to create
the main GitHub repo so
that everything else can be tracked and
managed, right?
Yeah, now, as Whisper said,
now we're just gonna be flying, and so
in this scenario, because I've done that.
There it is.
There's my workspace, right example
workspace for GitHub work resources.
There is my repo we know it's created,
so we know it shouldn't fail, right?
And then we hit Confirm and apply.
Now, you'll notice that once it's applied,
we have two workspaces now.
Terra or fem eci GitHub and fem eci tfp.